What do you want to do today ?
I want the necessary documents to extend my visa .
I want the necessary documents for procedures to bring my family to Japan .
I want to pay my taxes .
I need proof of income .
I want to talk about paying taxes .
I want a tax certificate .
If you submit it to the Immigration Bureau , you need both a proof of income and a proof of tax payment .
If you are exempt from tax , you need a tax exemption certificate .
Do you have the documents you received from the Immigration Bureau ?
Whose certificate do you need ?
Please look at this sample and fill in the application form .
Can you talk with your family and friends who can speak Japanese on the phone now ?
Please come to this window again with someone who understands Japanese .
I will connect the videophone call now .
You need to go to 0 0 City Tax Office ( 0 0 Branch Office ) .
What is your relationship with this person ?
If someone other than the person himself comes to the window , a letter of proxy is required .
Which year s certificate do you need ?
Example : The 2017 Income Report proves income for the year 2016 .
Can I issue the certificate for the latest fiscal year ?
How many tickets do you need ?
Please show me your ID .
You ca n't go through the procedure without your identification paper .
Where did you live on January 1st of this year ?
Please obtain your certificate at 0 0 .
If you lived outside Japan on January 1st of this year , the certificate can not be issued .
Were you working in AD 0 0 ?
Do you have anything that shows the annual income of the person who needs a certificate ?
( Withholding Record , Salary Statement , etc . )
Do you have any other documents ?
Please fill out this form .
Your income is written .
The municipal tax and prefectural inhabitants tax is 0 yen .
You are behind in your tax payment .
If you pay the unpaid tax now , we can issue a certificate of tax payment immediately .
Will you pay the tax immediately ?
After you pay the tax at the bank counter , please come back to this counter again with the receipt .
After you pay the tax at the general affairs section , please come back to this window again with the receipt .
After you pay the tax at the counter number 0 on the zeroth floor , please come back to this counter again with the receipt .
May I see your receipt ?
Since the municipal tax and prefectural inhabitants tax is 0 yen , we ca n't issue a tax certificate .
If the " Unpaid Amount  " is the same as the " Amount Not Yet Due , " it is not considered delinquent .
Your municipal tax and prefectural inhabitants tax are deducted from your salary and paid to Nagoya city by the company you work for .
I paid this tax .
Please pay the fee .
The procedure is over .
Mandator
Address
Name
Phone Number
Seal of the person ( the person who wants a certificate )
Person ( person who wants a certificate )
Please write your address , name and phone number .
Terms of Reference
Please write down the name and number of certificates you need .
Agent
People who come to the counter
Whose certificate do you need ?
People who came to the counter
Spouse ( wife or husband )
Parent
Child
Application for support
Pension application
Public housing ( income declaration )
Loans ( borrowing of funds )
Receiving child allowance
Submitted by the Immigration
School Expense Subsidy Application
Application for High School Enrollment Support Fund / Private High School Tuition Reduction
Scholarship Application
Application for Encouragement of Enrollment in Special Needs Education / Encouragement of Enrollment in Private Kindergartens
Specific medical expenses application
Visa application
Bidding
Submission to public offices ( other than bidding )
Guarantor
License application for liquor sales business
Please write the name of the family you are supporting .
Relationship
Please write your life situation .
I m a dependent of someone .
A person who supports you
Student
School Name
During medical treatment
Out of work
Please write down the name of the person who needs the certificate .
Please write the address of the person who needs the proof .
Please write your date of birth .
Please write down your name .
Please write down your address .
Please write down your phone number .
Application for Tuition Fee Exemption for Universities and Other Schools
Application for approval of application of Payment When High Medical Treatment Costs Are Incurred and limit amount
I will give you the 0 0 certificate .
~ Confirmation of health status ~
Instead of filling out the physical condition record , I will use the application "  LAVITA  " to manage my physical condition .
Please take a look at the usage below and register to the application at regular time ( 7:30 , 11:30 , 17:30 , 21:00 ) .
Health Check Sheet How to use LAVITA
You can input your physical condition record from your smartphone .
Please refer to the URL below or read the QR code and access the dedicated site .
Enter your temperature and SpO2 measured in your room and answer each of the 12 questions .
Please see the back for details on how to use it .
URL for LAVITA login
https://www.lavita.ne.jp/member
* You can open the URL by scanning this QR code with your smartphone camera .
QR code
Login ID
Name + ID number @ co. jp
* Enter @ co. jp .
Password
toyokoin1
* Please do not change your password .
* All characters are in single - byte lowercase .
Instructions can be found on the back .
Health Check Sheet How to use LAVITA
Tap Answer to Interview in " Health Observation " to start the interview .
Tap the pencil - marked ✐ for body temperature and SpO2 , select a manual 🔘 , and enter a value to confirm
For questions 1 - 12 , tap  Yes  or  No  , and if you have any other symptoms or if you have something to say , please enter it in the free entry column  Other  at the bottom .
Tap Register at the end to complete the registration of medical interview .
We are looking for an elementary school club leader !
From September 2021 , all 262 municipal primary schools in 16 wards of the city will have new post - school athletic and cultural activities commissioned by the private sector .
We are looking for people who will assist in the activities , such as instructors , leaders , etc .
This course is for those who have experience in sports and music ( such as choral and musical instruments ) , and who are able to teach children at elementary schools from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Tuesdays and Fridays ( with training in teaching and safety management ) .
Guidance , training and reporting will be conducted in Japanese .
To apply , please register with " https://jinzaibank-nagoya.jp Club Activity human resource agency " < Nagoya > .
Nagoya City s New Movement and Cultural Activities
The activity is basically 3 days from Tuesday to Friday .
The target is 4th to 6th graders of Nagoya City Elementary School .
For each day of the week , children choose one from two events .
Children can participate in up to 3 events in a year .
I work at school .
( In athletic grounds , gymnasiums , and school buildings )
Guidance is given by two or more leaders of the management company .
Participation is voluntary , but please do so as part of improving children s physical strength and fostering their rich humanity .
Inquiries ( Japanese only ): Board of Education , Lifelong Learning Club , Club Activities Promotion Office ￫ 52 - 972 - 4090 FAX:052 - 972 - 4207
Throwing cigarette waste will cause a fire .
Nagoya City Fire Station
The number one cause of fire is cigarettes .
It is prohibited to throw away the cigarette waste in places other than the trash can .
Most of the causes of cigarette fires are due to throwing cigarette waste away in places other than the trash can .
Countermeasure
Do n't throw cigarette waste anywhere other than the trash can while walking or from inside the car .
I smoke at the designated place .
I use portable ashtray well .
The number of people who smoke on the balconies of condominiums and apartments has increased and a fire is occurring .
In addition , lit cigarettes were thrown away from balconies and stairs of condominiums and apartments , hitting cardboard boxes on the ground and causing fires .
Please dispose of your cigarette waste properly .
There is a case that a fire breaks out from an ashtray which you threw away cigarette waste .
Place a non - combustible ashtray .
Ashtrays always contain water .
Ashtrays are sometimes disposed of without storing cigarette waste .
You throw away cigarette waste after you put out the fire by pouring water on it .
Before I go to bed or go out , I will check if the fire of cigarettes is turned off for sure .
Nagoya City Fire Department , Prevention Division
Please feel free to call the Prevention Division of Nagoya City Fire Department .
The Naka Fire Station website provides useful information for fire prevention and disaster prevention .
If you throw your cigarette waste away somewhere other than the trash can and a fire breaks out , you will be caught by the police .
Even a small fire can be punished by Japanese law .
It is a crime to throw away cigarette waste in a place other than a trash can .
It will be a crime if a fire occurs due to mishandling of cigarettes .
Throwing a lit cigarette from the veranda of your house is a crime .
Support System for Single - Parent Families
Please ask the contact person for details .
We respond to inquiries in Japanese .
Receive an allowance or pension
Child Rearing Allowance / Nagoya Single - Parent Family Allowance / Aichi Prefecture Orphan Allowance
It is paid when you are raising a child who is 18 years old or younger by yourself because of divorce , being unmarried , or death .
* Including cases where the father or mother is in a certain state of disability .
* If your child is 18 years old , he is eligible from his birthday to March 31st .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Child allowance
It will be paid if you are raising a child up to the third year of junior high school .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Survivors basic pension
It is paid when a national pension policyholder or a person who has been a member of the old - age basic pension for more than 25 years dies and his or her spouse lives with a child under 18 years old .
* If your child is 18 years old , he is eligible from his birthday to March 31st .
Contact : Health Insurance Section , Ward Residents Welfare Division , Health Insurance and Pension Division Administration Branch , Ward Office
To reduce the economic burden
Medical expense assistance for single - parent households
Out - of - pocket medical expenses for medical expenses will be subsidized .
Contact : Health Insurance Section , Residents Welfare Division , Health Insurance and Pension Division Health Insurance Section , Ward Office
Reduction and exemption of national health insurance premiums
If you are a widow or a single parent under the tax law , the National Health Insurance fee will be reduced or exempted .
* There are conditions .
Contact : Health Insurance Section , Residents Welfare Division , Health Insurance and Pension Division Health Insurance Section , Ward Office
Exemption and postponement of national health insurance premiums
If you are a widow or a single parent under the tax law , you will be exempted from or granted a grace period for the national pension premiums .
There are conditions .
Contact : Health Insurance Section , Ward Residents Welfare Division , Health Insurance and Pension Division Administration Branch , Ward Office
Reduction and exemption of water and sewage charges
The fee for the water and sewage system will be reduced for the households receiving the child support allowance .
* It is limited to the case where the recipient himself has a contract .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
JR commuter pass special discount
Households receiving child support allowance receive thirty percent off when they submit certificates issued by ward offices and branches and buy a JR commuter pass .
* Student commuter pass is not eligible .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
To receive tax relief
If you meet the conditions under the tax law , you can apply for the system reduction system .
In addition , those who meet the conditions may be exempt from or exempt from resident tax ( municipal and prefectural inhabitants tax ) .
If you want to apply for it , please do n't forget to file it at the year - end adjustment or Final Income Tax Return .
Contact : City Tax Office in your ward
To receive loans
Welfare Fund Loan for Mothers , Fathers , and Widows
You can borrow the necessary expenses for studying at school , acquiring skills , getting a job , moving , and so on .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Looking for jobs and improving skills
Benefits to Promote Advanced Skills Training for Single Mothers
It is paid as living expenses for a certain period of time when a person studies at a training institution in order to obtain a qualification necessary for employment or career change , such as a nurse .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Loans for Promotion of Higher Vocational Training
If you aim to acquire qualifications while receiving the benefits in item ( x ) above , you can borrow money necessary for entering school and getting a job .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Single - Mother Household Independence Support Training and Education Benefits
If you take a course to obtain a qualification for nursing care , etc . , a part of the course fee will be subsidized .
* There are conditions .
Please consult before starting the course .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Support Benefits for Passing the High School Graduation Certificate Examination
If you take a course to pass the High School Graduation Certificate Examination , a part of the course fee will be subsidized .
* There are conditions .
Please consult before starting the course .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Employment support seminars
Training sessions are held to help employees acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for employment and career change , such as personal computers and nursing care .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Application for the sale of tobacco
When you apply for selling cigarettes , the criteria for permission will be relaxed .
Contact : Financial Affairs Division , Financial Affairs Department , Tokai Local Finance Bureau Tel : 951 - 2546
Where to consult about work
Hello Work near you
There are also Hello Works that have interpreters .
Please look at the homepage .
Ministry of Health , Labour
https://www.mhlw.go.jp/content/000592865.pdf
Joinus . Nagoya
I will help single - parent families to find a job .
TEL 252 - 8824
Look for a place to live
Recruitment of public housing
In municipal housing and prefectural housing , in addition to general recruitment , recruitment for single - parent families is conducted .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Maternal and Child Living Support Facilities
It is a facility where children under 18 years old who need protection and their mothers are admitted .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Private rental housing occupancy consultation ( reservation required )
We provide housing consultation to families with children who want to move into private rental housing .
Contact : 3 - 5 - 12 Sakae , Naka - ku , Sakisakae Forest Underground Mall South Fourth Avenue South Tel : 242 - 4555
Receive support for raising children
Short - Term Admission Living Support for Children ( Short Stay )
In cases where it is temporarily difficult to raise children at home due to social reasons such as the guardian s illness , the child will be taken care of in an infant home , foster home or foster home for up to one week in principle .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Life Support for Single - Parent Families
For single - parent families and widows who are having trouble with their daily lives .
Life support : A helper will visit your home and help you with housework and nursing care .
Child Care Support : Children are temporarily taken care of at a designated childcare facility .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Diverse child care
If you need to take care of your child for reasons such as a guardian s job , you can use a day - care center .
There are also Holiday Day Care , Extended Child Care , Night Child Care , Day Care for Sick Children and Day Care after Sick Children .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
After - hours childcare at kindergartens
Temporary Child Care is provided at the kindergarten or the center for early childhood education and care .
Contact : Center for Early Childhood Education and Care
Temporary custody
We take care of children temporarily in order to reduce the burden on parents mind and body due to childcare fatigue or when it becomes temporarily difficult to take care of children at home due to sudden circumstances .
Contact :
Temporary custody
Child Welfare Section , Child Welfare Division , Ward Office
Protection and Child Section , Resident Welfare Division , Branch Office
Nobinobi Kosodate Support
Head office
TEL962 - 5103
Childcare support base
Child - rearing support bases
To secure funds for children s education
School expense assistance , etc .
Depending on the type of school your child goes to , expenses for attending school and so on are supported .
Contact : Kindergarten or school your child goes to
Scholarships ( Japan Student Services Organization )
There are grant - type scholarships and tuition reduction and exemption for those who attend universities and junior colleges .
Contact : The school your child goes to
Japan Student Services Organization Website : https://www.jasso.go.jp/
Ensuring opportunities for children to learn and experience society
Learning support for junior high school students
Learning sessions are held according to each student s level of learning , with the aim of acquiring learning habits and advancing to high school .
Contact : Planning Office for the Future of Children , Department of Children and Youth ( TEL 972 - 3199 )
Creating spaces for children in single - parent families
For children from the 5th grade of elementary school to the 3rd grade of junior high school , we have a place where they can casually drop in , chat , do their homework , relax and participate in events .
Contact : Planning Office for the Future of Children , Department of Children and Youth ( TEL 972 - 3199 )
Cultural and sports exchanges
We hold events where parents and children and single parents can interact with each other and experience the professional world of sports and music to help them make career choices in the future .
Contact : Planning Office for the Future of Children , Department of Children and Youth ( TEL 972 - 2522 )
Leisure Facilities for Single - Parent Households
If you use accommodation such as " Kokumin Shukusha  Okuhamanako " " or day trip facilities such as " "  Legoland  " " , you will be subsidized . "
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Preferential use of municipal facilities
You can use the city facilities such as Higashiyama Zoo and Botanical Gardens and the city science museum for free .
Contact : Protection and Child Section , Ward Welfare Section , Branch Office of Civil Welfare and Child Section , Civil Welfare and Child Section
Due to the approach of Typhoon No . ● , the operation plan of the city bus and subway on [ Month ] [ Day ] ( [ Month ] [ Day ] [ Day ] [ Day ] [ Day ] [ Day ] [ Day ] [
As Typhoon ● approaches , the city bus and subway will be operated as follows .
All trains will be suspended from around ● : ● ( first train ) .
From around ● : ● ( the first train ) , trains will be operated as follows .
In other lines and sections , trains may be reduced , delayed or suspended .
It will suspend operations between Hoshigaoka ( H18 ) and Fujigaoka ( H22 ) and operate fewer trains between Takabata ( H1 ) and Hoshigaoka ( H18 ) .
It will be suspended .
It will suspend service between Kami Otai ( T01 ) and Shonai Ryokuchi Koen ( T02 ) and operate between Shonai Ryokuchi Koen ( T02 ) and Akaike ( T20 ) .
The direct train service to Meitetsu will be stopped .
We operate with fewer trains .
Operation of City Bus and Subway due to the approach of Typhoon No . ●
As typhoon ● approaches , the city bus and subway may be operated as follows .
It may be delayed or suspended .
Service between Hoshigaoka ( H18 ) and Fujigaoka ( H22 ) may be suspended .
Service may be suspended between Kami Otai ( T01 ) and Shonai Ryokuchi Koen ( T02 ) .
Direct operation to Meitetsu Line may be suspended .
We are making an operation plan due to the approach of typhoon ● .
It is about △ △ minutes late .
Operation is scheduled to resume around ◇ ◇ o'clock .
You can get a refund at the station .
You can take a city bus , Meitetsu or JR instead of the subway .
Please ask for details at the station .
Is that sound okay ?
What s a living noise ?
Household noise is the sound generated by household activities , such as the sound of television , the sound of doors opening and closing , and the sound of a piano .
Living noise is the sound generated in daily life , so it ca n't be said that it is not emitted at all .
People feel the sound differently .
Sounds that are " unavoidable " or " enjoyable " in everyday life may be perceived as " loud " or " unpleasant " by people around you .
It is important to pay attention to the sound you make on a daily basis , consider not to make unnecessary sounds , and devise ways to make the sound smaller .
If you have a good relationship with your neighbors , such as greeting them on a daily basis , the noise in your daily life may not be a problem .
Be considerate of the people around you .
Sound from audio equipment ( stereo , TV , piano , etc . )
Please be careful about the time of use such as avoiding early morning and late night .
Close windows , adjust volume , use headphones , and be careful not to let sound leak out .
Let s use a sound - proof sash to prevent the sound from leaking out .
Noise from home appliances and household equipment ( air conditioners , vacuum cleaners , etc . )
When you install an outdoor unit , you should choose a place as far as possible from your neighbor s house , and if necessary , you should insulate it with a block wall .
When you buy home appliances , you should choose the one with low sound .
Avoid use early in the morning and late at night as much as possible .
Noise in the early morning and at night ( idling of cars and motorcycles , etc . )
Do not idle your car or motorcycle early in the morning or late at night .
Avoid cleaning and washing early in the morning and late at night .
Other sounds ( such as opening and closing of doors and windows )
Please be careful not to make a loud noise when you open and close doors and windows .
Let s walk quietly in the room .
It has a big impact on the lower floors .
Issued by : Air Environment Section , Regional Environment Division , Environmental Affairs Bureau , Nagoya City
Phone : 972 - 2674
FAX:972 - 4155
Guardian
Nagoya City Board of Education
Notice of School Expense Subsidy Continuation Procedures
( from September 2020 to August 2021 )
The benefit period for those who are currently receiving the school expense subsidy is until August 2020 .
If you wish to continue to receive financial assistance from September 2020 to August 2021 , please submit the attached " Application for Continuation of Financial Assistance for School Expenses " to the school your child is going to .
Deadline for submission
Submit to school by Wednesday , June 10
If you can not submit it by Wednesday , June 10 , please contact the school to submit it at a later date .
Only students who submit complete documents to the school by Thursday , September 24 are eligible for continued recognition .
If there is a delay or deficiency in submission of documents , it will not be approved again on September 1st .
Please confirm and submit it .
[ Precautions ]
If you have 2 or more children who want assistance , please apply for each of them .
The certification will be based on the content of the application this time .
If your household situation changes after you apply ( change of guardian , remarriage , move , living with grandparents , etc . ) , please contact the school immediately .
If , at a later date , the submitted documents are found to contain amendments or errors and no longer meet the accreditation requirements , the accreditation may be cancelled .
If there is any doubt about the contents of the application , we may confirm the household situation and income ex officio .
Details of payment ( scheduled as of April 2020 )
September to December 2020
Payment around October 26
January to March 2021
Payment around January 25
April to August 2021
Payment around June 1
Paying for necessary school supplies , etc .
First year of elementary school
4,320 yen
3,240 yen
[ Please see the column for new school year ]
2 - 6 years of elementary school
5,040 yen
3,780 yen
6,680 yen
1st year of junior high school
8,200 yen
6,150 yen
10,690 yen
Second and third year junior high school
9,000 yen
6,750 yen
11,560 yen
Enrollment reserve
Grade 6
60,000 yen
Payment around February 25
Graduation album fees , etc .
6th graders , 3rd graders
Provided to students who receive school expense subsidies and purchase yearbooks , etc . as of March 1 .
Actual cost
School meals expenses
All grades
The head of the school pays to the food service organization ( not directly to the parents ) .
Middle schools that offer school lunches pay parents the amount of money they actually eat and drink .
Payment is made around June 1 for April , around March 31 for March , and around the 25th of the following month for other months .
Actual cost
Field activity expenses
Elementary 5 / Junior high 2
At the time of implementation , it is paid to students who received school expense subsidies and participated in outdoor activities .
After payment ( usually 2 to 3 months )
Actual cost
Senior grade excursions expense
6th graders , 3rd graders
Provided to students who have received school expense subsidies at the time of implementation and participated in school trips .
After payment ( usually 2 to 3 months )
Actual cost
Travel expenses to school
Pay actual expenses to students who commute by public transportation to schools with a commuting distance of 4 km or more for elementary schools and 6 km or more for junior high schools as a special educational consideration ( regardless of commuting distance for special needs classes ) .
Payment months are July , October and January .
School sickness medical expenses
The head of the school pays medical institutions the cost of treatment for school illnesses treated under the school s instructions ( not directly paid to the parents ) .
School Life Management and Guidance Sheet Expenses
All grades
Payment of a document fee for a school life management guidance sheet prepared by a doctor regarding food allergies and heart and kidney related diseases .
Receipt from medical institution required
Payment is made around June 25 for April and May , and around the 25th of the following month for other months .
Actual expenses ( up to 3,000 yen )
* For households receiving livelihood protection , only senior grade excursions expense and medical expenses for school sickness are included in the payment items of school expense assistance .
Other items are eligible for livelihood protection and are paid by the Social Welfare Office ( Department of Livelihood and Child Affairs , Ward Office ) .
* School sickness refers to trachoma , conjunctivitis , otitis media , chronic sinusitis , cavities , adenoids , parasitic diseases , and certain skin diseases .
When receiving treatment , be sure to receive a  treatment statement  from the school in advance and bring it to the medical institution .
In addition , if you have a medical treatment coupon for children or a Certificate for Single - Parent Family Medical Care Support , they will be given priority .
* The payment period may be slightly different .
Who is eligible for the school expense subsidy and required documents
If you sign your name and seal in the " consent " column of the application form for continued enrollment assistance , you do not need the attached documents ( Child Rearing Allowance Certificate , municipal tax , prefectural inhabitants tax certificate , etc . ) because the board of education will check the necessary information for continued approval .
However , if you have moved to Nagoya city after January 2 , 2020 or if you have not declared your income , and if you can not obtain the necessary information as a result of checking at the board of education , you will be required to submit the necessary documents separately .
If there is a person with a different address who is included in the household due to work away from home , the board of education can not obtain necessary information , so you need to submit the necessary documents .
If you do not sign or seal the consent form , please attach the necessary documents for each category below .
Application items
Documents to be attached ( when the name and seal are not affixed to the  consent form  , etc . )
Where the certificate was issued
1
Person requiring public assistance as prescribed in the Public Assistance Act
Not required
2
Those whose livelihood protection has been suspended or abolished since April 2 , 2019 .
Not required ( principle )
* If the system is abolished due to a change of household ( remarriage , etc . ) , it is not applicable .
3
Those who have received child support allowance
Child Rearing Allowance Certificate
* A copy of the page with the seal of the director of the social welfare office is required .
* The benefit period must be [ after November 2019 ] .
* Child Allowance , Single - Parent Household Allowance , Aichi Prefectural Orphan Allowance and Special Child Support Allowance are not applicable .
Ward Office , division , Ward
Local Residents Welfare Division
( Social Welfare Offices )
4
Those who are in financial trouble
Certificate of Municipal Tax and Prefectural Inhabitants Tax [ 2020 ( 2019 income ) ] ( copy is acceptable )
* All members of the household are required ( except those who are dependents under the Income Tax Act and those who are high school students or younger ) .
A tax office at a City Tax Office , branch office , ward office , or branch office
You can apply for this item if the total income of all members of the household in 2019 is less than or equal to the lower income threshold .
Number of household members
Two person household
Three person household
Four person household
Five person household
Six person household
Income threshold
2.469 million yen
2.769 million yen
3.146 million yen
3.726 million yen
4.097 million yen
( Standard Revenue )
( 3.76 million yen )
( 4.14 million yen )
( 4.6 million yen )
( 5.33 million yen )
( 5.79 million yen )
For households of seven or more people , the income threshold for a six person household is increased by 489000 yen for each additional person .
The income standard amount on the upper row is the approval standard .
The amount in parentheses below is an estimate of the income of a salaried employee .
If the income of a person who is making a living has decreased sharply due to unavoidable reasons such as injury , illness , unemployment ( dismissal , bankruptcy ) , or if the income has decreased sharply due to the effects of the novel coronavirus infection , consideration may be given even if the income exceeds the base amount .
Please consult with the school .
( Retirement age and voluntary retirement are not applicable . )
Note 1 : The term " household " in the School Expense Subsidy refers to all people living in the same house .
People who live in the same house are considered to be in the same household even if their grandparents are living separately or have resident records .
People who do not live in the same house due to work away from home , but maintain the livelihood of the household are also included in the same household .
Please write all the members of the same household in the column of household status on the application form .
Note 2 : All members of the household must be applicable to the same item ( except for application item 3 ) .
Other
Approval and payment in April - August 2021 is based on the approval of the 2021 budget .
Please note that depending on the situation , it may not be approved or paid as per this guidance .
The period of assistance for children who graduate from junior high school this year is until March 2021 .
If there is an unpaid amount of the money collected by the school that is subject to the school expense subsidy , you may pay it to the school even if you have applied for the account transfer .
Based on the consent , if the board of education views and confirms the information necessary for the examination of the eligibility for the school expense subsidy ( Basic Resident Register Information , Public Assistance Information , Child Rearing Allowance Information , Income Information ) and there is a doubt about the contents of the application , the situation may be confirmed .
* If you have any questions , please contact the Student Affairs Division of the Nagoya City Board of Education ( TEL : 972 - 3217 ; FAX : 972 - 4175 ) or the school to which you are commuting .
( Month ) ( Day ) , 2021
0 0 0 0 Your Excellency , Mayor .
* Los Angeles City , Sydney City , Turin City , Mexico City , Lance City and Nanjing City
Hello
I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to you and all those concerned for your support in holding the " Sister Friendship City Children and Students Calligraphic Exhibition " sponsored by the Nagoya City Board of Education .
Last year , we held the 42nd Sister City Children s Calligraphy and Painting Exhibition at Nagoya City Museum from November 18 to 23 , 2021 , and the exhibition was a great success .
So I am very late , but I would like to send you a postcard as a memento that shows the works that children in Nagoya city submitted to this exhibition and the works selected from the works sent from sister cities and friendship cities in this city . I hope you find it useful .
This year , as part of the Sister and Friendship City Project , the 43rd Sister Friendship City Children and Students Calligraphy and Painting Exhibition will be held from November 17 to 21 , 2021 . We are planning to exhibit works received from each city that is a sister and friendship city of this city .
Amidst various issues such as measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus infections , We are very sorry for the request , but if possible , we would like to ask you to send the works of children in your city by September 1 , 2021 , and we would like you to arrange it .
We believe that it is appropriate for the purpose of promoting mutual understanding and deepening friendship between the two cities that the works of children sent from sister cities and friendship cities are widely appreciated by citizens .
We look forward to your continued cooperation .
Sincerely yours
Nagoya City Board of Education
Superintendent of Education 0 0 0 0
* Signature
( Month ) ( Day ) , 2021
0 0 0 0 City
* Los Angeles City , Sydney City , Turin City , Mexico City , Lance City and Nanjing City
Hello
I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to you and all those concerned for your cooperation and support in collecting and sending the works of the " Sister and Friendship City Children and Students Calligraphy Exhibition " held by the Nagoya City Board of Education .
Last year , we held the 42nd Sister City Children s Calligraphy and Painting Exhibition at Nagoya City Museum from November 18 to 23 , 2020 .
The exhibition featured 3,098 paintings , 33 three dimensional works and 2,012 calligraphy works selected from 374 elementary and junior high schools in Nagoya City , along with works by children from sister cities and friendship cities .
As many as 25078 people with visitors .
The unique works by the children of sister cities and friendship cities were different from the works by the children of Nagoya City in terms of the use of colors and the overflowing atmosphere from the screens . Many parents and children were seen looking at the works with interest while thinking about the state of each sister city and friendship city .
So I am very late , but I would like to send you a postcard as a memento that shows the works that children in Nagoya city submitted to this exhibition and the works selected from the works sent from sister cities and friendship cities in this city . I hope you find it useful .
This year , as part of the Sister and Friendship City Project , the 43rd Sister Friendship City Children and Students Calligraphy and Painting Exhibition will be held from November 17 to 21 , 2021 . We are planning to exhibit works received from each city that is a sister and friendship city of this city .
Therefore , we would like to ask you to send us the works of children in your city ( 50 flat works such as paintings , 54 cm x 39 cm or less ) by September 1 , 2021 if possible .
At the same time , please include a list of names of authors , ages , and titles of each work .
I will send you the form made in Excel attached to the email , so please send it back to me by the attached email after you input it .
Please note that we will not return the works you sent to us , just like other sister cities and friendship cities , as we will use them as educational materials in this city after the exhibition ends .
At this time next year , we will be sending the works of children from Nagoya to your city from this city , so we hope you will find them useful .
We believe that it is appropriate for the purpose of promoting mutual understanding and deepening friendship between the two cities that the works of children sent from sister cities and friendship cities are widely appreciated by citizens .
We look forward to your continued cooperation in the future .
Sincerely yours
Nagoya City Board of Education
Guidance Director 0 0 0 0
( Signature )
Special Needs Education Enrollment Promotion Fund for 2020
Students with disabilities who attend special needs classes at Nagoya - shi elementary and junior high schools can use the " Special Needs Education Enrollment Promotion Fund , " which provides paying for necessary school supplies and school meals expenses according to household income .
Audience
Those who fall under any of the following 1 to 3 .
Students in special needs classes
Students of Teaching School for Handicapped Students ( those who do not fall under 3 . )
Only transportation expenses ( transportation fees ) will be provided . )
* Regular attendance at prefectural special support schools is also eligible .
Students in regular classes ( including Teaching School for Handicapped Students ) who fall under the level of disability prescribed in Article 22 - 3 of the Order for Enforcement of the School Education Act . ( For details , see the reverse . )
Expenses covered by the subsidy
Partition
Elementary school
Junior high school
School meals expenses
Actual Cost x 1/2
Actual Cost x 1/2
Transportation expenses ( transportation fees )
Actual Cost ( Note 1 )
Actual Cost ( Note 1 )
Travel expenses for exchange learning
Actual Cost ( Note 1 )
Actual Cost ( Note 1 )
Senior grade excursions expense
Actual Cost x 1/2 ( up to 10,790 yen )
Actual Cost x 1/2 ( up to 28,860 yen )
Extracurricular Activity Expenses ( with accommodation )
Actual Cost x 1/2 ( up to 3,422 yen )
Actual Cost x 1/2 ( up to 3,540 yen )
Extracurricular Activity Expenses ( without accommodation )
800 yen
1,155 yen
Expenses for purchasing school supplies
Actual Cost x 1/2 ( Note 2 ) ( Maximum 5,820 yen )
Actual Cost x 1/2 ( Note 2 ) ( Maximum 11,370 yen )
Expenses for purchasing school and school supplies for new students ( first year students only )
Actual Cost x 1/2 ( Note 2 ) ( Maximum 25,555 yen ) ( Note 3 )
Actual Cost x 1/2 ( Note 2 ) ( Maximum 28,990 yen ) ( Note 3 )
( Note 1 ) For ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , if the accreditation stage is Stage III , " actual expenses x 1 / 2 " shall apply .
( Note 2 ) For items ( 7 ) and ( 8) , payment will be made according to the purchase performance , and a receipt ( address , product name , amount ) will be required .
( ⑦ refers to those purchased between February 2020 and January 2021 , and ⑧ refers to those purchased before April 2020 . )
However , if the student purchases school supplies and school supplies necessary for the enrollment in ( h ) after April due to the temporary suspension of operations due to the novel coronavirus , receipts by the end of June will be applicable . )
( Note 3 ) The upper limit has increased since last fiscal year .
Accreditation criteria and support costs
The approval level is decided based on the ratio of the household income amount and the standard livelihood protection demand amount , and the expenses and amount of subsidy differ depending on the approval level .
The certification level is determined annually .
Certification Phase
Basis of calculation
Expenses covered by the subsidy
I
Income is less than 1.5 times demand
II
The amount of income is 1.5 times or more and less than 2.5 times the amount of demand
① ～ ⑧
III
Income is more than 2.5 times demand .
② , ③
Standards for Stage I and II ( income less than 2.5 times the standard livelihood protection demand )
About the following amount of income .
Even if the number of people in a household is the same , the amount of income varies depending on the age structure .
Number of household members
Two person household
Three person household
Four person household
Five person household
Six person household
Household income
4.634 million yen
6.044 million yen
7.119 million yen
7.96 million yen
9.219 million yen
( Annual Income of Employment Income Earners )
( 7.292 million yen )
( 9.055 million yen )
( 10.375 million yen )
( 11.364 million yen )
( 12.845 million yen )
In addition to the " Special Needs Education Enrollment Incentive Fund " , there is a " School Expense Subsidy " program that provides financial support for school lunch fees and paying for necessary school supplies for those who are in financial trouble .
You ca n't receive the same payment items of the School Expense Subsidy and the Special Needs Education Enrollment Promotion Fund at the same time .
The school expense subsidy is more generous , so I recommend that those who are eligible for the school expense subsidy choose the school expense subsidy .
However , you need to apply for the transportation expenses for exchange study because they are paid only by the special needs education enrollment promotion allowance .
Criteria , etc . for students in regular classes ( including Teaching School for Handicapped Students ) who fall under the degree of disability prescribed in Article 22 - 3 of the Order for Enforcement of the School Education Act ( 3 ) of the subject person on the front )
Segment
Degree of disability ( criteria pursuant to Article 22 - 3 of the Order for Enforcement of the School Education Act )
Judgment Method
Required documents
Visually impaired person
Of those whose corrected visual acuity in both eyes is approximately less than 0.3 or whose visual impairment other than visual acuity is severe , those whose visual recognition of ordinary letters , figures , etc . is impossible or extremely difficult * even with the use of a magnifying glass , etc .
* Considerable time is required for visual recognition of ordinary characters , figures , etc . , special support and consideration are required for guidance in all subjects , etc . , and special guidance to improve and overcome disabilities is systematically and continuously required .
A person with a physical disability certificate of Grade 2 or higher , or a person with a physical disability certificate of Grade 3 to 6 , who has been diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the following criteria :
Copy of physical disability certificate
Medical certificate issued by a doctor ( in the form designated by Nagoya City )
( For ( 2 ) , only those with a physical disability certificate of Grade 3 to 6 are required . )
Deaf person
Of those whose hearing level in both ears is approximately 60 decibels or more , those whose ordinary speaking is impossible or extremely difficult to understand even with a hearing aid or artificial inner ear , etc .
Intellectual disability
Those who have intellectual development and have difficulty in communicating with others and frequently need assistance in their daily lives .
Of those whose degree of intellectual development is less than 1 , those whose adjustment to social life is extremely difficult
The medical treatment and education judgment in the Welfare Handbook is A.
Copy of Welfare Record Book
Physically disabled person
The condition of Limb / Trunk Dysfunction is such that even with the use of prosthetic devices , it is impossible or difficult to perform basic movements such as walking * , eating , putting on and taking off clothes , excretion , etc . , or drawing for learning activities .
Those whose condition of Limb / Trunk Dysfunction does not reach level 1 and who require constant medical observation and guidance ( requiring constant medical observation within a specified period and receiving guidance and training on each movement and movement in daily life from getting up to going to bed )
* Walking does not include movement in a wheelchair .
A person with a physical disability certificate of Grade 2 or higher , or a person with a physical disability certificate of Grade 3 to 6 , who has been diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the following criteria :
Copy of physical disability certificate
Medical certificate issued by a doctor ( in the form designated by Nagoya City )
( For ( 2 ) , only those with a physical disability certificate of Grade 3 to 6 are required . )
Sickly person
A chronic respiratory disease , renal disease , neurologic disease , malignant neoplasm , or other disease that continues to require medical care * 1 or livelihood regulation * 2 .
Those whose Physical Weakness condition continues and who require lifestyle restrictions * 2
* 1 Diagnosis and treatment mainly by a doctor .
This does not include daily medication or self - injection .
* 2 The disease significantly limits exercise , daily activities ( walking , bathing , reading , learning , etc . ) , and the quality and quantity of meals .
A person diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the following criteria
Medical certificate issued by a doctor ( in the form designated by Nagoya City )
If a person has more than one disability , the person with the most severe disability will be judged .
[ Procedures ]
As for students in special needs classes and Teaching School for Handicapped Students , we will inform you about the application around early June .
As for other students , please ask the school if you want to receive it .
Also , if you need a doctor s medical certificate , please receive the necessary documents at school , bring them to the medical institution , and ask them to make a medical certificate .
For details of the system , please contact the school you are commuting to or the Educational Affairs Division of the Nagoya City Board of Education ( tel : 972 - 3217 ) .
Nagoya City Board of Education R2.5
Year Month Day
Guardian
Head of Nagoya Municipal 0 0 Elementary School
Nagoya City Board of Education
Submission of School Lunch Application Form
Thank you for your understanding and cooperation for our school education .
With regard to school lunch , the Nagoya - city government bears the cost of facility maintenance and personnel expenses for cooks , while parents and guardians bear the cost of purchasing school lunch materials for their children as school meals expenses . Both the Nagoya - city government and parents and guardians bear the cost of running school lunch .
As a general rule , the monthly school meals expenses is 4,400 yen ( excluding August , which may be revised in the future ) . Please pay by the due date .
In order to clarify the relationship between the school and parents in providing school meals , we ask that you submit the following application form .
[ [ PDEFINE ~ RFFS
School lunch application form
Nagoya City 0 0 Elementary School Principal
Nagoya City Board of Education
You apply for the school lunch and pay the school meals expenses by the designated deadline .
Year Month Day
Address :
Name of guardian : ( signature )
Delete Mark
[ Relationship :]
Name of child :
Date of Birth : Year Month Day
For single - parent families
Trouble Consultation Form
Do you have any problems at work , raising children or living ?
There are various counselors at the ward office and branch offices to think together and solve your problems and worries .
No matter how trivial it is , it does n't matter .
Why do n't you talk to the counselor first ?
If necessary , we can cooperate with other consultation services .
Please tell me about your problem or what you want to consult .
Please submit this consultation form together with the enclosed Current Status Notice to the ward office or branch office .
Please note that the contents of the consultation form will not be used as materials for determining payment of the child support allowance , etc .
I ll keep it a secret .
Do you have any of the following problems or things you want to consult ?
Place a 0 in parentheses for all applicable fields ( multiple answers allowed ) .
If you do n't have any particular problems , please add 0 to " 2 do n't want " in Q4 .
Matters related to work and income
I want to find a job .
I want to work , but I do n't have the energy to look for it .
I m working now , but I want to work on better terms .
Struggling with workplace relationships
Want to be qualified
Other ( please specify )
Matters related to health and life
Physical condition is not good
There is a time when it is mentally unstable
Unable to do housework , etc .
Be troubled with family relations
Be troubled with the residence
I want to review my household finances .
Have trouble obtaining child support
It is troubled in repayment of debt
Trouble with language and communication
Other ( please specify )
Matters relating to children
Have concerns about raising children
Feeling burden in raising children
The child has a chronic disease or disability and feels insecure .
Not able to keep up with school work
It does not want to go to the school
Tend to be withdrawn
There is not much conversation between parent and child and they do not understand the feelings of the child .
Feeling insecure about their children s future
Have trouble with tuition fees
Other ( please specify )
At the ward office or branch office , we are thinking about what we can do together to solve your problems or worries .
Would you like to consult with a counselor ?
Desire
2 . Not requested ( reason :)
* If you have already consulted with another institution , please tell me where to consult .
( Contact :)
< < Please enter your contact information > >
Furigana
Name
Telephone number
Time when it is easy to answer the phone such as lunch break at work
( Weekdays 10 am - 4 pm )
Monday , Tuesday , Wednesday , Thursday , Friday , any time
: to :
* Please note that depending on what you have answered , the ward office or branch office may contact you regardless of whether you wish to do so .
* Depending on the content of your consultation , you may be able to view information related to the child support allowance or make inquiries to the relevant organizations .
Ward Office / Branch Office Entry Column
* Please do not write anything .
( Certificate Number :)
Child Rearing Allowance System ( Information )
The child support allowance is approved on the condition that the recipient of the allowance ( hereinafter referred to as the " recipient " ) and the child who is eligible for the allowance ( hereinafter referred to as the " eligible child " ) satisfy the recipient qualification .
For those who have been approved , the amount shown below ( monthly ) will be transferred six times a year ( May 11 , July 10 , September 11 , November 11 , January 8 , and March 11 ) .
Eligible children
First
Two .
Third and subsequent
Full payment
43,160 yen
10,190 yen
6,110 yen
Partial payment
43,150 yen ~ 10,180 yen
10,180 yen ~ 5,100 yen
6,100 yen ~ 3,060 yen
* Amounts are as of April 1 , 2020 .
Required Notifications
In the following circumstances , please go through the procedure at the Civil Welfare and Children Section of the Civil Welfare and Children Division of the City Office ( for those living in the jurisdiction of the branch office , the Protection Section of the Civil Welfare Division of the branch office ) .
Please note that if the necessary procedures are delayed and the allowance is overpaid , you will have to return the allowance already paid .
When the recipient qualification is no longer satisfied
Beneficiary
Married [ for a father or mother ]
* Includes de facto marriage ( common - law marriage ) and cohabitation with the opposite sex .
To be eligible for public pension benefits
( After December 2014 , depending on the amount of public pension , you may be able to receive the child support allowance . )
The subject child is no longer looked after ( no longer cared for ) .
Only in the case of a father whose livelihood is no longer the same as that of the eligible child
It became possible to receive the compensation for surviving family , which is paid when the father or mother of the subject child dies .
No longer domiciled in Japan
No reason to receive benefits
The father or mother no longer abandons the child .
The detention of a father or mother has ended
Etc .
Eligible children
A person who has been admitted to a child welfare institution or juvenile training school
Entrusted to foster care
To be entitled to a public pension due to the death of a father or mother
To be added to the amount of the public pension paid to the father or mother
( After December 2014 , depending on the amount of public pension , you may be able to receive the child support allowance . )
To be entitled to survivors compensation due to the death of the father or mother
The fiscal year in which the person reached the age of 18 ( March 31 ) has ended
If the period is extended due to disability status , and the person has reached the age of 20 or is no longer in the disability status .
Married
No longer domiciled in Japan
Notification of Loss of Status of Receipt or Notification of Amount Revision or Notification of Receipt Status of Public Pension Benefit , etc .
Confirmation of continued eligibility for benefits ( every August )
Current Status Notice
Five years after receipt of the allowance , and every subsequent August
When seven years have passed since he / she became eligible for payment due to divorce , etc . , and in August of each subsequent year
Reason for Exception from Partial Benefit Payment Suspension Notice
When there is a change in the situation , etc . ( change in name , address , household composition , public pension amount , etc . )
Notification of Change / Notification of Receiving Status of Public Pension Benefit , etc .
< < Note > > After December 1 , 2014 , even if you can receive a pension , you may be able to receive a child support allowance depending on the amount of the pension .
( ★ See also the reverse side )
Notice received
The contents of the notice you received are as follows .
Notice of approval
As a result of reviewing your claim , you have been qualified to receive the allowance .
Notice of loss of qualification
You are no longer eligible for benefits
Notice of Amount Revision ( Reduction )
The allowance has been reduced due to a decrease in the number of children you are responsible for ( raising ) .
Notice of Amount Revision ( Increase )
The allowance has been increased due to an increase in the number of children you are responsible for ( raising ) .
Injunctive notice
The payment of the allowance was temporarily suspended due to the occurrence of reasons for suspension ( such as the fact that the Current Status Notice has not been submitted ) .
Notice of release from suspension
The suspension of payment of the allowance was lifted because the reason for the suspension was resolved .
Notice of Suspension of Payment
The payment of all or part of the allowance has been suspended because the income of you or a person under a duty to support you who lives with or shares living expenses with you in the previous year was above the limit .
Notice of Suspension of Payment
The suspension of payment of the allowance was lifted due to changes in household composition , income reassessment , etc .
Notice of Examination Results
Your decision regarding payment of the allowance from November to October of the following year
Income limit
If the amount obtained by deducting the applicable deduction from the income of the recipient or the person responsible for support , etc . in the previous year ( the year before the previous year in the case of a request from January to September ) ( * If the recipient is the mother of the eligible child , 80 % of the child support received by the recipient or the eligible child shall be added to the income from the father of the eligible child , and if the recipient is the father of the eligible child , 80 % of the child support received by the recipient or the eligible child shall be added to the income from the mother of the eligible child ) is more than the limit amount specified by the number of dependent relatives , the payment will be suspended .
Partition
Beneficiary himself
Full payment
Partial payment
Caregivers of orphans , etc .
Spouse
Person responsible for support
Limit
Number of dependents
0 persons
1 person
Two .
3 people
Addition for each additional person
Addition due to old age dependency
Addition due to specified dependents
Less than 490000 yen
Less than 870000 yen
Less than 1.25 million yen
Less than 1.63 million yen
380000 yen
100,000 yen
150000 yen
Less than 1.92 million yen
Less than 2.3 million yen
Less than 2.68 million yen
Less than 3.06 million yen
380000 yen
100,000 yen
150000 yen
Less than 2.36 million yen
Less than 2.74 million yen
Less than 3.12 million yen
Less than 3.5 million yen
380000 yen
60000 yen
Deduction
Fixed amount deduction ( applicable to all )
Special Deduction for the Physically Disabled
Special Deduction for Widows * 1
Handicapped person , widow * 1 , widower * 2 , Working Student Deduction
Special Income Tax Deduction for Spouses
Miscellaneous losses , medical expenses , and Small Business Mutual Aid Premium Deduction
Special deduction for long - term capital gains / short - term capital gains
80000 yen
400000 yen
350000 yen
270000 yen
Deduction
Deduction
Deduction
80000 yen
400000 yen
350000 yen
270000 yen
Deduction
Deduction
Deduction
80000 yen
400000 yen
350000 yen
270000 yen
Deduction
Deduction
Deduction
A single parent who is not eligible for widow / Widower s Deduction shall be deemed to be eligible for widow / Widower s Deduction ( limited to a rearer or a person responsible for support ) .
* 1 If the recipient is the mother , Special Deduction for Widows and Widow s Deduction are not applicable .
* 2 If the beneficiary is the father , the Widower s Deduction will not be applied .
< Example > Annual income of 2 million yen , child support of 400000 yen received by the recipient , child support of 100,000 yen received by the subject child , three children , three dependents under the tax law , and no person responsible for support .
The full payment will be less than 1.63 million yen , the partial payment will be less than 3.06 million yen , and the full payment will be stopped if it s more than 3.06 million yen .
Since 80 % of Child Rearing Expenses is added to the income , 2 million yen + ( 400000 yen + 100,000 yen ) x 0.8 = 2.4 million yen .
Subtracting the amount of deduction from this , 2.4 million yen - 80000 yen ( fixed amount deduction ) = 2.32 million yen , which corresponds to  partial payment  .
The monthly allowance for the first child is 43,150 yen - ( 2.32 million yen ( income ) - 1.63 million yen ) x 0.0230559 = 27,240 yen .
10,180 yen - ( 2.32 million yen ( income ) - 1.63 million yen ) × 0.0035524 = 7,730 yen for the second child
6,100 yen - ( 2.32 million yen ( income ) - 1.63 million yen ) × 0.0021259 = 4,630 yen for the third child
It is 39,600 yen in total .
This paper is made from recycled paper including used paper pulp .
Important News
Nagoya - shi
Guide to the Child - Rearing Household Life Support Special Benefits
We will provide new benefits to support families with small children !
Recipients
Those who fall under both ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) ( * Excluding those who received benefits equivalent to Single - Parent Households )
Parents , etc . raising a child under 18 years old as of March 31 , 2021 ( in the case of a disabled child , under 20 years old ) ( * Newborns , etc . born by the end of February 2022 are also eligible . )
Those who are exempt from inhabitant tax ( per capita basis ) in fiscal 2021
Or
Those whose income has suddenly changed since January 1 , 2021 and has become equivalent to income exempt from resident tax .
Payment
Uniform 50000 yen per child
In some cases , you do n't need to apply for the payment , and in other cases , you need to apply .
Please make sure to check the payment procedure on the back .
If it is found that the same child received the payment twice , you need to get a refund .
* If you would like to know more about how to apply or if you would like to have the application form sent to you , please call :
Application Submission and Contact Information
Nagoya City Hall , in charge of " Child - rearing Household Life Support Special Benefits ( for non - Child Single - Parent Households ) " ( Call Center )
Nagoya Higashi Post Office , 461 - 8799 ( Dai - Fuji Building , 6 f , 35 - 16 Daikancho , Higashi - ku , Nagoya - shi )
Phone : 52 979 2415
FAX 52 - 933 - 1118
Hours : 9:00 - 17:30
Open every day from July 1 to September 30 , including weekends and public holidays .
Procedures for payment of benefits
Recipients of Child Allowance or Special Child Rearing Allowance for April 2021 who are exempt from resident tax
You can receive the benefit without applying .
After we send out the information about the benefit , we will transfer it to the bank account that pays child allowance or special child support allowance in the middle of July ( around 19th ) .
As of January 1 , 2021 , those who live in municipalities outside Nagoya are scheduled to make the transfer in late July ( around July 29 ) .
Those who are taking care of a child born between April 2 , 2021 and February 28 , 2022 , who are newly receiving child allowance and are exempt from resident tax
You can receive the benefit without applying .
After sending the information of the benefit , we will transfer it to the bank account which pays the child allowance after the end of July .
People other than the above ( for example , those raising only high school students , those whose income has changed suddenly )
You need to apply to receive the benefit .
( Application deadline : Postmarked on February 28 , 2022 )
Please fill out the required information on the application form and submit it along with the required documents to the address indicated on the front page .
For those who meet the requirements for the payment of benefits , we will confirm the contents of the application and transfer to the designated account .
If you would like to receive an application form , please contact the contact information listed on the front page .
( You can also download it from the Nagoya city official website . )
Eligible for benefits
Application procedures for benefits
Please submit the application documents by mail to the person in charge of the " Child - rearing Household Life Support Special Benefits ( for non - Child - rearing Single - Parent Households ) " .
Transfer to a designated account
Based on the submitted application documents , we will confirm if you meet the requirements for the payment of the benefit , and then we will transfer the money .
Nagoya - shi
Please be careful of " bank transfer fraud " and " personal data theft " of " Child - rearing Family Life Support Special Benefits " .
If there is a suspicious phone call or mail from your home or workplace to a prefecture , municipality , or the Ministry of Health , Labor and Welfare ( employees ) , please contact the nearest police station or Police Consultation Dedicated Telephone Line ( # 9110 ) .
Year Month Day
Guardian
Ward mayor
Enrollment Proposal
Your child will be at the age to enter elementary school next April in Japan .
We will confirm the school you want to enter , so please submit the enclosed questionnaire by September 1st in principle .
The child who will enter elementary school next April is the one who was born from April 2nd , 2015 to April 1st , 2016 .
Please fill out the enclosed Scheduled Attendance Questionnaire and submit it to the City Office Citizens Division Counter / Branch Office Civil Affairs Office .
If you wish to enroll in Nagoya City Elementary School , you need to go through the enrollment procedures , so please be sure to come to the City Office Citizens Division / Branch Office Citizens Desk .
If you can not confirm which school you are going to enter this time , we will send you a confirmation letter at a later date , so please cooperate in answering .
If you have any other questions , please follow the instructions below .
Contact Information
Chikusa Ward Office , Citizens Division
Phone 762 - 3111
( direct dial 753 - 1898 )
Triophone ( Non - Japanese speakers , please call here )
Nagoya International Center
Phone 581 - 6112
To Parents with Children
School Attendance Guide for Foreigners
~ What are Japanese schools like ? ~
[ About elementary and junior high schools in Japan ]
We accept foreign children for free as well as Japanese students , and guarantee them the same opportunities to receive education as Japanese .
You can go to Nagoya Municipal Elementary School or Junior High School which is determined by your place of residence .
Length of schooling at elementary and junior high schools
In Japan , children can enter elementary school from the first April after six years of age and receive six years of education .
When they graduate from elementary school , they can enter junior high school and receive 3 years of education .
In addition , many students who graduate from junior high school go on to higher education .
There are high schools , specialized training colleges ( general and advanced courses ) , technical colleges and so on as places to go to .
Also , there are people who get a job after graduating from junior high school .
Expenses borne by parents
Tuition fees for public elementary and junior high schools are free .
In addition , textbooks for elementary and junior high schools will be distributed free of charge .
Some expenses , such as school lunch fees and paying for necessary school supplies , are borne by the parents .
School Expense Assistance
For those who are having trouble sending their children to elementary and junior high schools due to economic reasons , we have a school expense subsidy program to support school lunch fees .
Health checkup
It is held at the school he goes to every year .
For the child who went through the procedure to enter Nagoya City Elementary School next April , the School Entry Health Checkup is conducted at the elementary school from October to November before entering the school .
The elementary school you applied for will notify you of the schedule later , so please make sure to see a doctor .
[ Support after enrollment ]
In Nagoya city , there is a Japanese language education consultation center for those who want to consult about school or study .
If you want to know more about you want to know more about the school or if you have any trouble such as asking for an interpreter .
In addition , there are classes for learning basic Japanese ( daily conversation , etc . ) , classes for learning Japanese necessary for subject learning , and other environments where you can learn with peace of mind .
If you want to enter these classrooms , please consult with the teacher of the school you are entering .
[ Contact ]
About financial aid
School Expense Assistance Section , Student Affairs Division , Board of
Phone : 52 972 3217
Enrollment Procedures
Please contact the City Office , Citizens Division or Branch Office , Citizens Section .
Learning the Japanese Language and School Life after Enrollment
Japanese Language Education Center
Address : Nagoya City Hall of Education , 3 f , 1 - 1 - 4 , Izumi 1 - chome , Higashi - ku , Nagoya City , 461 1
Phone : 52 961 418
Information on Novel Coronavirus Vaccine Vaccination Certificates
This document will be issued to those who have received the novel coronavirus vaccine and need a document proving that they have received the in addition to the vaccination certificate due to overseas travel or other circumstances .
This vaccination certificate is limited to overseas travel for the time being .
In Japan , even if you do n't have this certificate , you can confirm the fact of vaccination with the vaccination certificate .
How to apply
We only accept applications by mail .
There is no fee for the issuance of the certificate except for the postage for application and delivery .
* Please contact the call center if you are going to travel in a few days and the issuance of the certificate by mail is not enough .
Certificate Application Flow
The required documents will be mailed to " 0 Application Delivery Address " below .
( Submitted required documents will not be returned . )
We will check the contents of the documents at the city hall .
The certificate will be returned from the city hall .
In principle , the certificate will be prepared and sent within about a week from the day the application form arrives . However , if there is any omission in the application form , we will issue the certificate after confirming it over the phone .
Also , it will take some days to send it by mail , so please apply well in advance .
Where to send the application
3 - 1 - 1 Sannomaru 3 - chome , Naka - ku , Nagoya - shi , 460 - 8508
In charge of Vaccination Certificate , Novel Coronavirus Disease Control Office , Health and Welfare Bureau
Required documents
[ Required Documents ]
Application form ( You can download it from the official website of Nagoya City )
Copy of passport ( valid as of the date of travel )
Copy of coupon ( please make sure to copy the Inoculation Card number ) * 1
Copy of vaccination certificate or vaccination record ( copy of vaccination certificate is not required as long as it is included in the copy of coupon )
Self - Addressed Return Envelope ( Please be sure to attach a postage stamp and provide your return address and name )
A copy of your identity verification document that confirms your return address ( copy of your My Number card , driver s license , Health Insurance Card , etc . ) * 2
If there is no coupon ticket due to loss , or if the seal on the Inoculation Card number is peeled off , please submit a document that can confirm your My Number ( Individual Number Card , Notification Card , Copy of Residence Certificate with My Number , etc . ) .
If you do not have either of these documents , please submit a copy of the document that states your address on your resident registration at the time of vaccination ( if you have moved , a copy of your residence certificate , etc . that states your previous address ) .
When you enclose a copy of your health insurance card as an identification paper of the person , please black out the code , number and insurer number .
[ Documents required in some cases ]
If your passport has your maiden name , another name , or another name written on it , a copy of your identity verification document ( My Number Card with your maiden name , driver s license , family register , certificate of residence , etc . ) that can be used to verify your identity .
In the case of a request by an agent , a power of attorney signed by the principal
Self - addressed return postage stamp ( with a self - addressed return envelope attached )
In principle , the return address is the address of the applicant .
Envelope size is not specified .
Please check the Japan Post Co. , Ltd. website for details on postage rates .
If the postage stamp is not enough , we ca n't send it , so please do n't forget to attach it .
If you want express delivery , attach the postage stamp for express delivery and write express delivery in red on it .
Contact Information
Questions about vaccination certificates
Novel Coronavirus Vaccine Call Center , Ministry of
Telephone : 120 761 770 ( toll - free )
Reception hours : 9 am to 9 pm ( Saturdays , Sundays and public holidays are also available )
Inquiries regarding the issuance of vaccination certificates
Nagoya novel coronavirus vaccine call center
Phone : 50 3135 2252
Hours : 9 am to 5:30 pm ( weekdays only )
Please see the details on the official website of Nagoya City .
